---
title: 2017 Center for Astrophysics Workshop
nav_exclude: true
---

# Archived Event: 2017 Center for Astrophysics Workshop

## Cambridge, MA, USA; 2017 November 27

*What:* A professional development workshop on how to use AAS WorldWide
Telescope in astronomical research, however those who wish to learn WorldWide
Telescope for education or outreach are welcome to attend.

*Who:* This workshop is aimed at astronomy researchers at all levels. You
don’t need to have any previous knowledge of WorldWide Telescope and you do
not need a computer that runs Windows.

*When:* Monday November 27th, 10am-Noon

*Where:* Wolbach Collaboration Space

*About WorldWide Telescope:* The American Astronomical Society’s WorldWide
Telescope (WWT) is a seamless data visualization program with an engaging
learning environment. The WWT project enables terabytes astronomical images,
data, and stories to be viewed and shared among researchers, exhibited in
science museums, projected into full-dome immersive planetariums, and taught
in classrooms from middle school to college levels.

*Requirements:* Participants must bring an internet-enabled laptop with a Mac,
Linux, or Windows operating system (not a tablet, Chromebook, etc.). The
laptop must either have Chrome or Firefox installed.

## Syllabus

The syllabus and curriculum are under active development.

- WorldWide Telescope on the Web: Overview and how to use it.
- Creating a WorldWide Telescope Tour
- Sharing your tour: How to embed your tour on your website, in your talk, and
  create a video abstract for your paper.
- WorldWide Telescope in the researcher workflow: python, JS9, adding data.
