---
title: WWT @ AAS231
nav_exclude: true
---

# Archived Event: WWT @ AAS231

## National Harbor, MD, USA; 2018 January 8–12

Here is a listing of the WorldWide Telescope related events at the American
Astronomical Society 231st Winter Meeting.

## WorldWide Telescope Related Workshops

The following AAS Staff Splinter Sessions are included in the meeting
registration fee and do not require extra registration. In other words – come
one and come all!

### Professional Development with WorldWide Telescope

Tuesday 1/9 10:00-11:40 (National Harbor 6) Philip Rosenfield

This will be a professional development workshop on how to use WWT in
astronomical research; however those who wish to learn WWT for education or
outreach are welcome to attend.

This workshop is aimed at astronomy researchers at all levels. You don’t need
to have any previous knowledge of WWT and you do not need a computer that runs
Windows.

Participants must bring an internet-enabled laptop with a Mac, Linux, or
Windows operating system (not a tablet, Chromebook, etc.). The laptop must
either have Chrome or Firefox installed.

### Better Data Visualization and Exploration with Glue

Tuesday 1/9 3:00-5:00 (National Harbor 8) Catherine Zucker and Hope Chen

Modern research projects incorporate data from a wide range of sources, and
new insights are increasingly driven by multi-wavelength data visualization
and exploration. Glue (glueviz.org) is a graphical environment that allows
researchers to easily visualize relationships within and amongst data sets. In
this splinter session, we will take participants through the steps of setting
up glue, loading data, setting up links between datasets, explore the data
using various kinds of visualizations, installing and creating plugins, and
demonstrate some of the more advanced features of glue. No experience in
Python is required, but we recommend that participants install the Anaconda or
Miniconda Python Distribution ahead of time. Development of Glue is funded by
NASA, in support of the James Webb Space Telescope, and by the NSF.

## WorldWide Telescope Presentations at the AAS Booth (Exhibit Hall)

The WorldWide Telescope team will be at the AAS booth to help you jump start
using WWT, showcase what’s new in WWT, and where WWT development is headed.
We’ve also scheduled the following presentations:

### Interact with WorldWide Telescope using Python

Wednesday 1/10 11:00-12:00 and Thursday 1/11 12:00-1:00

O. Justin Otor, one of the developers of [pyWWT](https://pywwt.readthedocs.io/)
will give an overview of the software, examples on how to use it, and answer
questions.

### WorldWide Telescope in Planetariums

Tuesday 1/9 1:00-2:00 and Wednesday 1/10 1:00-2:00

David Weigel, the Planetarium Director at Samford University will talk and
answer questions about using WorldWide Telescope in planetariums at the AAS
booth. David has co-led several WWT planetarium workshops at planetarium
conferences and has lead students to create WWT full-dome visualizations (see
[the Christenberry Planetarium YouTube page](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCnFTT6Vd9TEVpYeVfQZPdpA)),
he is a member of the WorldWide Telescope advisory board.

### WorldWide Telescope in Education

Wednesday 1/10 4:00-5:00 and Thursday 1/11 1:00-2:00

Harvard University graduate students, Cathrine Zucker and Hope Chen, will
discuss the WorldWide Telescope Ambassador Program and other efforts to bring
WorldWide Telescope to the classroom.

## More WorldWide Telescope-Related Events

Thursday 1/11

2:00-3:30 (National Harbor 3) Special Session 324. Astronomy Visualization in
Research, Outreach, and Entertainment

5:30-6:30 (Exhibit Hall Posters) 360.10. Expert Images for All Audiences: The
AstroPix Archive and 360.13. Authentic Astronomical Discovery in Planetariums:
Bringing Data to Domes

Friday 1/12

10:00-5:00 (National Harbor 13) Hack with the WorldWide Telescope Team at the
AAS Hack Together Day

12:00-12:15 (Exhibit Hall, NASA Hyperwall) Navigating the Universe of Images:
AstroPix and WorldWide Telescope

---

Did we miss anything? Please email us at <wwt@aas.org> or tweet us
@WWTelescope
