---
title: WWT @ AAS233
nav_exclude: true
---

# Archived Event: WWT @ AAS233

## Seattle, WA, USA; 2019 January 6–10

*Reproduced from
 [journals.aas.org](https://journals.aas.org/wwt-aas233/).*

The AAS’ WorldWide Telescope team has been working hard this year to enable
more researchers to use WWT in their work. We’re looking forward to sharing
the fruits of our labors with you at the upcoming Seattle meeting! We’re
especially excited because this year is WWT’s 10th birthday — the first
release of the Windows desktop program happened back in 2008. Below is a list
of all the activities we’ve got planned. We hope to see you there!

## AAS WorldWide Telescope Booth

Monday–Thursday | All day | Exhibit Hall Booth 425

The WWT team will staff a station within the AAS booth in the exhibit hall
over the entire conference. See what’s like to use WWT through an
[Oculus Rift](https://www.oculus.com/rift/) VR headset or a giant
[Microsoft Surface Studio](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/surface-studio-2/8SBJXM0M58T4)
touchscreen panel! Or just chat with our developers and expert WWT users about
what WWT can do for your research, teaching, and outreach, and where the
project is going.

## AAS WorldWide Telescope presents: The University of Washington Mobile Planetarium

Monday–Thursday | All day | Exhibit Hall Booth 437

Planetaria aren’t just for slideshows anymore! Just across from the AAS WWT
booth, come learn how modern planetarium software and hardware — an inflatable
Go-Dome, a hemispherical mirror, and a laptop running WWT — can engage the
public, educate students, and dynamically visualize modern research data. The
[University of Washington Mobile Planetarium](http://depts.washington.edu/astron/outreach/uw-mobile-planetarium/)
is portable and can be set up in under an hour by a small team of people.
Besides enjoying this immersive experience on its own terms, at our booth you
can also learn how to bring a mobile planetarium to your own institution or
astronomy club. The UW Mobile Planetarium team has made its resources freely
available online and is happy to offer tips if you’re curious!

## Special Session: AAS WorldWide Telescope Presents: Advances in Astronomical Visualization

Monday 1/7 | 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM | Room 214 | Jonathan Fay

This session is aimed to bring the
[AstroViz 2018](https://conference.ipac.caltech.edu/astroviz2018) workshop —
exploring the many aspects of astronomical visualization for science, informal
education, and communication — to the AAS community. The detailed schedule of
speakers is:

- 10:00 – 10:14 ⋄ Robert Hurt (IPAC) ⋄ AstroPix: More than a Pretty Picture Gallery
- 10:14 – 10:23 ⋄ Brandon Lawton (STScI) ⋄ Providing a Direct Connection to NASA Science for Learners of all Ages with ViewSpace
- 10:23 – 10:32 ⋄ Jonathan Fay (WorldWide Telescope, Microsoft) ⋄ Title TBC
- 10:32 – 10:41 ⋄ Jacqueline Faherty (AMNH) ⋄ Visualizing Gaia DR2 for Science and Education
- 10:41 – 10:50 ⋄ Travis Rector (U. Alaska, Anchorage) ⋄ AstroViz @ LSST
- 10:50 – 11:03 ⋄ Ryan Wyatt (California Academy of Sciences) ⋄ Real-Time Data Visualization for Live Planetarium Programs
- 11:03 – 11:12 ⋄ Michael Zingale (Stony Brook) ⋄ yt and visualization of volumetric simulation data
- 11:12 – 11:21 ⋄ Justin Otor (WorldWide Telescope) ⋄ pywwt — AAS WorldWide Telescope via Python
- 11:21 – 11:30 ⋄ Frank Summers (STScI) ⋄ Visualizing a Simulated Milky Way: Not Quite Ready for its Closeup

(We’ll do our best to update this version of the schedule if changes become necessary.)

## Special Session: Professional Development with AAS WorldWide Telescope

Tuesday 1/8 | 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM | Room 214 | Peter K. G. Williams

The WWT is a seamless data visualization tool with an engaging learning
environment. The WorldWide Telescope project enables terabytes of astronomical
images, data, and stories to be viewed and shared among researchers, exhibited
in science museums, projected into full-dome immersive planetariums, and
taught in classrooms from elementary school to college levels. Learn to spruce
up your paper and share your research with WorldWide Telescope! This workshop
is aimed at astronomy researchers of all levels. You don’t need to have any
previous knowledge of WorldWide Telescope. **This is an interactive tutorial:
please bring an internet enabled laptop.**

## Special Session: AAS WorldWide Telescope in Outreach and Education

Tuesday 1/8 | 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM | Room 214 | Patricia Udomprasert

WWT is also a powerful tool for astronomy outreach and education. Its rich
visualization environment functions as a virtual telescope, allowing anyone to
make use of real astronomical data to explore and understand the cosmos. WWT
users navigate through 3-dimensional and 2-dimensional views of planets,
stars, and galaxies, giving them a better mental model of our universe. WWT
can also be used to create scripted multi-media paths called “Tours,” to share
stories about how we came to know what we know in astronomy. Students can make
their own tours for astronomy projects, and educators can use tours to design
lesson plans about curricular topics. In Part 1 of this session, invited
speakers will present brief examples of WWT being used in a variety of
educational settings, including Astro 101 classes, K12 science, online
courses, and planetaria. Part 2 of the session will be a hands-on WWT
tutorial, where we will lead attendees through a variety of activities in the
WWT web client. **Please bring your own computer. (Windows is not
necessary).**

The detailed schedule is:

- 2:00 – 2:11 pm ⋄ Curtis Wong (Microsoft Research) ⋄ Overview and Vision for WWT
- 2:12 – 2:18 pm ⋄ Pat Udomprasert (CfA), for Ned Ladd (Bucknell) and Stella Offner (UT Austin) ⋄ WWT in Astro 101 Classes
- 2:19 – 2:25 pm ⋄ Jais Brohinsky (HarvardX) ⋄ WWT in Online Courses
- 2:26 – 2:32 pm ⋄ David Weigel (Samford U.) ⋄ WWT in Planetaria
- 2:33 – 2:39 pm ⋄ Harry Houghton (CfA) ⋄ WWT in K-12 curricula
- 2:40 – 2:46 pm ⋄ Robert Hurt (IPAC) ⋄ Sharing intractable images using WWT web APIs
- 2:45 – 3:30 pm ⋄ Hands-on WWT Workshop

## WorldWide Telescope 2019 Planning Breakfast

Wednesday 1/9 | 7:00 AM – 8:00 AM | Location TBD | Peter K. G. Williams

Key WWT stakeholders will meet to discuss the status of the project and plans
for WWT in 2019. This meeting is primarily aimed at the project’s Advisory
Board and Steering Committee, but other project stakeholders may attend.
Please email Peter Williams (<peter.williams@aas.org>) if you are interested
in joining.

## Special Session: AAS WorldWide Telescope with Python and Astropy

Wednesday 1/9 | 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM | Room 214 | O. Justin Otor

Join us for a workshop where we will learn how to visualize FITS files and
Astropy data sets against imagery from large-scale sky surveys with
[pyWWT](https://pywwt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), a Python-driven and
Astropy-integrated interface of WorldWide Telescope. pyWWT is an open-source
and actively developed Python package designed to offer a more
research-focused take on WWT, an interactive, two and three-dimensional
astronomical visualization engine powered by imagery from many prominent
telescopes and widely used in K-12 education and for planetarium shows. In
this tutorial, attendees will be interactively guided through the package on
their own laptops to sample features that fill everyday needs in the workflow
of the data-savvy astronomer. Attendees will leave with knowledge of how to
use pyWWT to plot their own Astropy-compatible tables and personal FITS files
on real-data sky backgrounds and, in the future, create their own
visualizations for talks, astronomy lectures, and “video abstracts.” We also
be encouraging feedback and suggestions on how to make pyWWT more useful to
the astronomy community! **Please bring your own computer. (Windows is not
necessary).**

## Special Session: AAS WorldWide Telescope Shareathon and Brownbag

Wednesday 1/9 | 12:40 PM – 2:00 PM | Room 214 | Gina Brissenden

Do you use the AAS WorldWide Telescope (WWT) — in your research, publications,
teaching, outreach, or elsewhere? Perhaps you’re a WWT Developer — of
software, visualizations, curriculum, tours, or something else? Not sure what
all of this is about but are curious? Perfect! Grab your lunch, AND a
colleague, then come join others in our community for an informal discussion
about how we’re all using the AAS WWT, or would like to be, what our
development needs are, and about ways in which we can engage with each other —
and build community — beyond the length of this session. Presenters from AAS
WWT sessions held earlier in the meeting will also be along to contribute to
our conversation. Thanks to the AAS WWT, light beverages will be provided, so
we strongly encourage preregistration. We very much look forward to seeing you
there!


## WWT at the Hack Together Day

Thursday 1/10 | All day | Room 4C-2

Last but not least, WWT developers will be attending the now-traditional Hack
Together Day on the final day of the meeting. Seek them out if you have
project ideas, have any questions about how WWT works under the hood, or want
to learn about creating fast and portable web-based 3D visualizations using
WebGL!

---

If you won’t be able to make it to Seattle this year, we’ll be posting all of
our training materials and a write-up of what transpired. Email <wwt@aas.org>
to be notified as everything is posted!
