---
title: WWT @ AAS234
nav_exclude: true
---

# Archived Event: WWT @ AAS234

## St Louis, MO, USA; 2019 June 5–9

*Reproduced from
 [journals.aas.org](https://journals.aas.org/aas-worldwide-telescope-at-aas-234/).*

The AAS’ [WorldWide Telescope](http://worldwidetelescope.org) team has been
working hard this year to enable more researchers to use WWT in their work.
We’re looking forward to sharing the fruits of our labors with you at the
upcoming St. Louis meeting! In particular, we'll be putting on three WWT
tutorials. *Bring a laptop to each of these tutorials. The Chrome web browser
is recommended for use with WWT.*

Outside of the tutorials, WWT Director
[Peter K. G. Williams](https://newton.cx/~peter/) and Python developer O.
Justin Otor will be attendance and will be more than happy to discuss the
project with you! The best way to get their attention during the conference
will be to tweet at [@wwtelescope](https://twitter.com/wwtelescope).

---

## Introduction to the AAS WorldWide Telescope

Monday 6/10 | 1:40 PM - 2:40 PM | Wabash Cannonball Room | Peter K. G. Williams

The WorldWide Telescope (WWT) is the AAS's official tool for visually
exploring humanity's scientific understanding of the Universe. WWT is
primarily a website that allows users to interactively explore terabytes of
astronomical data in a seamlessly integrated 4D simulation of the known
universe. But the open-source WWT software ecosystem also includes a Windows
application that can power planetariums, a cloud-based web service for
discovering and sharing astronomical data, and a Python module that allows
researchers to integrate WWT into their Jupyter notebooks. This interactive
tutorial will introduce attendees to all of these aspects of WWT as well as
its applications to research, education, and public outreach.

## Making Tours with the AAS WorldWide Telescope

Tuesday 6/11 | 1:40 PM - 2:40 PM | Wabash Cannonball Room | Peter K. G. Williams

Alongside its open-ended exploration capabilities, WWT can be used to create
and view “tours”, are which scripted multimedia presentations of astronomical
concepts and data: like PowerPoint, but rooted in a 4D simulation of the known
universe. In this tutorial, attendees will learn the basics of how to create
tours and learn tips for integrating them into their classrooms, public
outreach events, and research.

## Interactive Data Exploration with pywwt

Wednesday 6/12 | 1:40 PM - 2:40 PM | Wabash Cannonball Room | O. Justin Otor

At the heart of WWT is a 4D simulation of the known universe connected to a
WebGL-based rendering engine that can dynamically access terabytes of
astronomical data stored in the Cloud or on your own computer. With the
“pywwt” Python module, you can embed this technology in your Jupyter
notebooks, integrate the WWT environment with your own images and data sets,
and control the resulting visualizations either interactively or
programmatically. Imagine DS9 in Jupyter, with a Python API! In this tutorial,
attendees will learn the basics of using pywwt and explore its capabilities
for loading and visualizing FITS files and Astropy data tables.

---

If you won’t be able to make it to St. Louis this year, we’ll be posting all
of our training materials and a write-up of what transpired. Email <wwt@aas.org>
to be notified as everything is posted!

To get back to this page in the future, you can use the shortlink <http://bit.ly/wwt-aas234>.
